you can easily burn more calories with
this step-by-step workout i've got for
you
just take care that you don't make any
of the mistakes i've listed here
let's get you warmed up with 60 seconds
of
marching in place this will help raise
your heart rate without putting a ton of
stress on your joints
it's also low impact cardio that will
get your body ready for our exercises
today
keep your elbows at an angle as if
you're going for a run and start
marching on the spot at a slow pace this
should not be much of a challenge for
those of us
former marching band members once you no
longer find the marching a challenge
try 60 seconds of back kicks
they're a little more intense because
you have to kick your feet up to your
glutes
but you can burn up to 13 calories in 60
seconds depending on your body weight
now give me another 60 seconds of big
arm circles these will warm up your body
and shoulders
we're also trying to get rid of the
tension in your upper back
just stand straight with your feet apart
and raise your arms to the sides
first rotate your arms forward and then
backwards or to give a bit of a kick to
your glutes
the following week switch to alternating
lunges
they'll strengthen your core and prepare
your body for a fat burning workout
now that you've worked up a bit of a
sweat let's sculpt your abs and slim
down your waist
with wall crunches place your legs
up against a wall and put your hands
behind your back for support
lift your shoulders and squeeze your abs
until you feel them stretching
try to stay in position for one to two
seconds for better results
keep your shoulders relaxed and breathe
out when you squeeze your abs during the
crunch
the exact opposite of this exercise is
the superman here we're gonna strengthen
your lower back and give you a stronger
core
most people make the mistake of
neglecting their backs and just focus on
their abs
to start out get down on your stomach
with your arms and legs stretched out
lift one arm along with the opposite leg
lower them then lift the other pair
once you've mastered that try keeping
your feet down
and raise both your hands then repeat
with your feet
for the pros you have to raise both your
hands and legs
and after a month or so start trying to
stay
in the position for four seconds if your
feet
feel a little sore try to do some
stretches to loosen up your muscles
let's make your abs stronger and your
body more flexible with
straight leg raises if you're a newbie
just
raise your legs in the air and place
your hands either at your sides
or underneath your glutes whichever
feels comfortable
lower your legs halfway until you feel
your abs stretching
try breathing in as you lower your legs
once you've mastered the first version
try bringing your legs down
but don't let them touch the ground
remember to avoid putting pressure on
your chest
or lifting your shoulders off the floor
many beginners also arch their backs
which can get you injured so don't do
that
remember keep your back fixed on the
floor
reverse crunches we got to get those six
packs showing
since the exercise targets the lower
layers of your abs
over time it'll give you a flat belly
and good back support
lift your knees up and place your hands
behind your ears
to support your head like a ball then
place your heels
in front of your glutes lift your chest
and pull it close to your thighs
your heels should be in line with your
hips
to take things up a notch try doing the
same exercise for 30 more seconds
and with your knees bent at a 90 degree
angle
once you become a pro try it with your
knees at a 90 degree angle
and your ankles crossed avoid putting
your elbows close to your knees
and lowering your chin time to relax
with
leg flutter kits this is a chill
exercise in terms of intensity
it'll help you get a slimmer waist but
you need to keep your core engaged the
entire time
keep your back straight on the ground
extend your legs
and lift them off the ground start
kicking your legs up and down
for 30 seconds another way to do it is
by moving your legs on top of each other
back and forth like scissors now many
people
lift their shoulders off the floor or
arch their backs
which can cause injuries keep your legs
straight
and once you get the hang of it add 10
more seconds to your reps
every week the inchworm this is a
bodyweight exercise
that will help strengthen your arms and
chest when you build up tolerance for
the warm-up exercises i showed you at
the beginning
add the inch worm to your warm-up
routine
you have to bend down and touch the
floor with your hands
then try to walk forward with your palms
and without moving your legs
reach as far as you can pause for two to
three seconds
and reverse the motion you can now stand
up
or stay in the touching toes position
this will help strengthen your
hamstrings
if you do the inchworm too quickly it
can be less effective and you might pull
the muscle
don't forget to engage your core
throughout the exercise
and avoid craning your neck forward if
you don't have enough space to walk
forward
you can do the exercise on the spot you
can also
make it harder by extending your plank
position
try flattening your body further and
holding the position for five more
seconds
let's not forget about your arms with
the tabletop reverse pike
here we're paying more attention to your
shoulders glutes and legs
this makes it one of the best exercises
we're doing today
since it gives you a full body workout
in just a few seconds
remember the focus of your body weight
should be on the edge of your palms
bring your knees up your shoulders back
and your torso into a tabletop position
lower your glutes and repeat as many
times as you like
a more difficult way to do this is place
your legs
further apart and curl your hamstrings
using your heels
bring your hips back down so that
they're aligned with your hands
for the pros out there try keeping your
legs straight on the floor
point your toes forward and roll your
shoulders until you get to the tabletop
position
when you come down your legs should be
straight
take a small break and let's finish with
the up and down plank
this will strengthen your core and tone
almost every main muscle group in your
body
since it's an advanced exercise it also
boosts weight loss
as a beginner you should start with a
normal plank exercise
but to get that high intensity cardio
you have to follow through into the up
and down plank
which is the more advanced version place
your palms underneath your shoulders
and go back down while alternating hands
many people forget to put their hands
underneath their shoulders
and instead position them in front doing
that
makes the exercise less effective others
will either opt for the wrong posture
with their glutes higher from the start
or they'll lift their glutes as soon as
they move their arms
keep your back straight when you move up
or down to do the exercise correctly
all right you did well today it's time
to finish our session with some cool
down stretches
try the child's pose for 30 seconds to
stretch your muscles
and relax when you're stressed you can
try the same stretch
to help calm yourself down then do an ab
stretch for another 30 seconds
to increase your flexibility and get rid
of all the tension
every day try a new stretch like the cat
cow stretch
the hamstring stretch and the glute
stretch
hey maybe there's something here to
stretch your dollars further
but that could be a stretch